---
Title: "SLAM for Indoor Mapping of Wide Area Construction Environments"
Authors: Vincent Ress, Wei Zhang, David Skuddis, Norbert Haala, Uwe Soergel

Date: 2024-04-26
citekey: ressSLAMIndoorMapping2024
tags: #Computer-Science---Computer-Vision-and-Pattern-Recognition, #Computer-Science---Robotics
---

## SLAM for Indoor Mapping of Wide Area Construction Environments

**Bibliographie :** [1]

V. Ress, W. Zhang, D. Skuddis, N. Haala, and U. Soergel, ‘SLAM for Indoor Mapping of Wide Area Construction Environments’. arXiv, Apr. 26, 2024. doi: [10.48550/arXiv.2404.17215](https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2404.17215).

**Lien de la publication :** http://arxiv.org/abs/2404.17215

**Lien Zotero :** [Ress et al_2024_SLAM for Indoor Mapping of Wide Area Construction Environments.pdf](zotero://select/library/items/6U57HGBU)

**Tags :** #Computer-Science---Computer-Vision-and-Pattern-Recognition, #Computer-Science---Robotics

> [!abstract]+
> _« Simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM), i.e., the reconstruction of the environment represented by a (3D) map and the concurrent pose estimation, has made astonishing progress. Meanwhile, large scale applications aiming at the data collection in complex environments like factory halls or construction sites are becoming feasible. However, in contrast to small scale scenarios with building interiors separated to single rooms, shop floors or construction areas require measures at larger distances in potentially texture less areas under difficult illumination. Pose estimation is further aggravated since no GNSS measures are available as it is usual for such indoor applications. In our work, we realize data collection in a large factory hall by a robot system equipped with four stereo cameras as well as a 3D laser scanner. We apply our state-of-the-art LiDAR and visual SLAM approaches and discuss the respective pros and cons of the different sensor types for trajectory estimation and dense map generation in such an environment. Additionally, dense and accurate depth maps are generated by 3D Gaussian splatting, which we plan to use in the context of our project aiming on the automatic construction and site monitoring. »_


